# Estimate costs for cloud infrastructure

Wow! Now you know how it feels to run a successful startup! Your todo app user base grows, and potential investors are getting interested in your project. Before investing money, your potential investors want to know, how much it costs to run the cloud infrastructure for your application - so in this task you will need to calculate the costs.

## How to complete tasks in this module 

Tasks in this module are relying on 2 PowerShell scripts: 

- `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1` generates the task "artifacts" and uploads them to cloud storage. An "artifact" is evidence of a task completed by you. Each task will have its own script, which will gather the required artifacts. The script also adds a link to the generated artifact in the `artifacts.json` file in this repository — make sure to commit changes to this file after you run the script. 
- `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1` validates the artifacts generated by the first script. It loads information about the task artifacts from the `artifacts.json` file.

Here is how to complete tasks in this module:

1. Clone task repository

2. Make sure you completed steps, described in the Prerequisites section

3. Complete the task, described in the Requirements section 

4. Run `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1` to generate task artifacts. Script will update the file `artifacts.json` in this repo. 

5. Run `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1` to test yourself. If tests are failing - follow the recomendation from the test script error message to fix or re-deploy your infrastructure. When you will be ready to test yourself again - **re-generate the artifacts** (step 4) and re-run tests again. 

6. When all tests will pass - commit your changes and submit the solution for a review. 

Pro tip: if you stuck with any of the implementation steps - run `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1` and `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1`. The validation script might give you a hint on what you should do.  

## Prerequisites

Before completing any task in the module, make sure that you followed all the steps described in the **Environment Setup** topic, in particular: 

1. Ensure you have an [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/) account and subscription.

2. Create a resource group called *"mate-resources"* in the Azure subscription.

3. In the *"mate-resources"* resource group, create a storage account (any name) and a *"task-artifacts"* container.

4. Install [PowerShell 7](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell?view=powershell-7.4) on your computer. All tasks in this module use Powershell 7. To run it in the terminal, execute the following command: 
    ```
    pwsh
    ```

5. Install [Azure module for PowerShell 7](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azure/install-azure-powershell?view=azps-11.3.0): 
    ```
    Install-Module -Name Az -Repository PSGallery -Force
    ```
If you are a Windows user, before running this command, please also run the following: 
    ```
    Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope CurrentUser
    ```

6. Log in to your Azure account using PowerShell:
    ```
    Connect-AzAccount -TenantId <your Microsoft Entra ID tenant id>
    ```

## Requirements

In this task, you need to work with the infrastructure from the [previous tasks](https://github.com/mate-academy/azure_task_5_move_vm_to_new_region). In order to complete the task, you need to perform the following steps: 

1. Use [Azure Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/pricing/calculator/) to estimate monthly cost of your infrastructure (as it would cost with Pay-as-you-go subsciption type). You need to include the following resources in your calculations:

    - Virtual Machine (don't forget to include it's OS disk as a part of the VM calculations)

    - Data disk 

    - Public IP address

2. Export the calculations as an Excel spreadsheet, and copy it to the repo folder.

3. Run artifacts generation script `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1`. 

4. Test yourself using the script `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1`. 

4. Sumbit the solution for a review.
